# css-minifier-tests

> A comparison of CSS minification engines.

## Usage

Run the tests with:

```sh
node test.js
```

Optionally, you can localise to an engine, or engines, of your choice by passing
the `--engines` flag, with a comma separated list of engines:

```sh
node test.js --engines cssnano,csso
```

And you can also run specific tests by passing the `--suites` flag.

```sh
node test.js --suites 19,84
```

## About

This project has been heavily inspired from [GoalSmashers' benchmark][1],
covering Node.js minifiers on a variety of CSS frameworks. But rather than
comparing minification sizes at a macro-level, it intends to provide a suite of
test cases on what the optimiser actually compresses. The aim of this project is
to improve the quality of Node.js minifiers (and provide thorough test cases for
new projects) - so that it isn't necessary to run several minifiers on a single
CSS file.

See https://github.com/ben-eb/css-minifiers for details on which engines are
covered.

The test cases do not resemble a standard unit test style of pass/fail, because
each minifier may yield slightly different output to the others, even when the
ending CSS size is the same. So they are graded on these criteria instead:

### outstanding

The minification path chosen is considered 'above and beyond' what one would
expect from a minifier; it either improved the structure of the CSS without
losing its semantics, or it did some other transform which was beneficial. Note
that this criteria does not appear on the majority of test cases.

### optimal

The minifier performed a safe optimisation which reduced the size of the CSS.

### sub-optimal

The size of the minified code is greater than an *optimal* optimisation, but it
is still fine to use in production.

### broken/crashed

The optimisation either breaks the author's original intentions, or a browser's
capability to render the CSS generated by the minifier. Or worse, the minifier
crashed when trying to parse the test case.

## Limitations

Some of these tests may appear deliberately contrived to try and break the
minifiers. Indeed, there are some tests that contain CSS that no sane person
would write. However, this is intentional; it is entirely possible that such
code can end up in minified stylesheets, through aggressive optimisations such
as selector and declaration merging. By testing every circumstance, we can
ensure that any code we throw at the minifier will not break our stylesheets.

Note that if an optimisation is classified as *sub-optimal*, **it is still fine
to use in production code**. But, we can always do better - so that if only one
minifier supports a *safe* optimisation which yields a smaller result than the
rest, it will be the recommended (optimal) solution.

*This test suite should not be a replacement for thorough unit testing of a CSS
minifier - it should be used alongside one.*

## Why?

When searching for different CSS optimisation tools as part of my build process,
it was found that running *more than one* tool on a single CSS file resulted in
greater compression than using a single tool. So why is this? Well, many CSS
compressors that exist out there today perform optimisations other than simple
whitespace compression. The more advanced ones will apply *structural
minimisation* to CSS; code that optimises the structure of a CSS file beyond the
author's original intent. A simple example:

```css
h1 {
    color: red;
}

h1 {
    font-weight: bold;
}
```

Structurally optimised, this can look like:

```css
h1{color:red;font-weight:bold}
```

Whereas a traditional minifier will just collapse the spacing around the
ruleset:

```css
h1{color:red}h1{font-weight:bold}
```

This kind of optimisation is important when considering that many developers use
CSS frameworks today; it means that authors can write additional styles *on top*
of the framework, and have the minifier compress those rules together
automatically.

## Contributing

Thinking of contributing? Great! Fork away, do your work on a separate branch
and send a pull request with your feature or fix. The aim of this project is to
produce a robust suite of test cases that are small in scope; please do not
contribute test cases that contain a full site's CSS. If you think that this
project is missing test cases that you feel are relevant, then please:

* Fork the project and create a branch for your test case.
* Add a `camelCased` test directory in `tests`.
* Create a `fixture.css` with your input. As much as possible, make your input
test a limited case, so that tests can be small and meaningful.
* Create an `optimalX.css` with the expected minified CSS - where X is any
number of cases.
* If some minifiers produce broken output, log it into `brokenX.css` - where X
is any number of cases.
* If some minifiers produce better than optimal output, log it into
`outstandingX.css` - where X is any number of cases.
* Optionally, add a README.md in the folder for further test case description.
* Commit your changes and send the pull request.
* You're awesome. :)

## License

MIT © Ben Briggs

[1]: https://github.com/GoalSmashers/css-minification-benchmark
